 The roadmap:

    Describe the planet [done]

    It is a planet of sand, scorching on its substellar side and freezing on its other, its poor absorbtion of heat disallowing it to ever reach an equilibrium on opposing sides, it ranges from 47° directly under the sun to a freezing -141° celsius in the coordinates farthest from the substellar point.
    In that huge gradient lies a small band hospitable to life, though its constant march does not allow life to start, rather, it begun at one of the polar gyesers and hot lakes connected to massive subterrenean reservoirs, that of which power all rain and snowfall.
    Describe creatures' organs and biochemistery in low detail and Make the oldest common ancestors of fauna and of flora

    All life split to a few kingdoms:
    Duramacie: Creatures with 5 fingers spread evenly, known for their possession of hard subcutaneous plates that keep them together along with six limbs and horns of differing sizes. The horns themselves are actually their method of breathing as they intake air and run it through layers upon layers of membranes behind the horns absorbing oxygen in what can be described as sails.
    they also have a lot of small scallop-like eyes
    Verebugges: Blind, deaf filter feeders with two paddle like legs and two small arms and many barbles, they speed around filtering water efficiently. They're so effective in fact that they don't die of old age or being hunted, but rather of positive buoyancy caused from high fat percentages. They're held together by exoskeletons and breath via their skin, limiting their size.
    Sessilia: Everything that doesn't move in adulthood is believed to come from this kingdom, this includes all the spores in the sand and the shrubbery in both desert and snow.
    The first fauna to come on land are speculated to be ,followed by duramacitic omnivores.
    Diversify the proto ecosystem of mobile creatures

    Skip a few dingusillion years and you'll find the shrub, largely subterrenean plant with above ground shrubbery possesing hard shelled dark fruits that use pressure built from the water inside to propel seeds across impressive distances.
    Describe the beginnings of the caravan
    Describe the mass convergent traits and behaviour plus the extreme specializations of some species
